[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Many spend
their entire lifetime searching
for their destiny, while
others can't avoid it,
even if they try.
Chetan Parkyn and
his teacher both fall
into the latter group.
Chetan was an engineer
when he ended up in India
as the driver of a magic bus.
And this is where his
incredible story begins.
Rather than getting into
all of your credentials--
I love this part-- let's
start even earlier than that.
Because people can
begin to understand that
you're kind of a natural
magician in some way at heart.
And you had your
very first experience
at the age of-- what was it?
Four?
Sitting in a tree.
Will you share that with us?
>>CHETAN PARKYN: Yes.
I have to say, I grew up in
a very well-to-do situation
in England.
>>REGINA: Oh,
surprise, surprise.
>>PARKYN: And I didn't have
an awful lot of contact
with my parents
in the early days.
But I did have nannies,
and nurse maids,
and other people around me.
And at the age of
four, I realized
that what was going on around
me was not in my best interests.
And I literally found myself
sitting in a tree wondering,
what is this that's
going on here?
I'm very clear with myself.
hat it is that I'm here to do
and play out in this lifetime,
and I'm being contradicted
every which way I turn.
So I had a bit of a wake
up sitting in that tree,
realizing in that time I had
three friends in the world.
Two of them were trees,
and one was a cow.
[LAUGHING]
And the cow was called
Belinda, and Belinda
let me used to ride around
her going around the field
while she was eating
her grass and stuff.
>>REGINA: Well, I
understand that, though,
that magical world
of nature where
things are really breaking
down more in the human world.
What was happening behind
the walls of your home
that made you feel so
disconnected from it?
>>PARKYN: Just
everywhere I looked,
things were not running in what
I saw as a truthful pattern.
That people were living
out of integrity.
And it was really quite a shock.
So in that early
time, I found out
that I had to be aware of what--
>>REGINA: But you knew
is the difference in what
was in and out of
integrity at four?
You could tell there were
certain obvious patterns.
>>PARKYN: Definitely, yes.
Yes.
So I buckled down, got into
the system, put up with it all.
Went to boys boarding school,
went through all of that.
>>REGINA: That's kind of harsh.
>>PARKYN: Boys boarding
school, yes, you know,
it was the English way.
Get the boys to be
independent so they
become good bankers,
or civil servants,
or something like that.
>>REGINA: But you take them
away from their moms so early.
>>PARKYN: Seven years old
on a strange door step.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>PARKYN: With strange
outfits and stuff.
Yeah.
But after that, I had a
couple of years to travel.
I had time in France
picking grapes.
That was a wonderful exercise.
I had time in America.
It was during the Vietnam War.
There was a huge break in
consciousness going on there.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: And that
was very refreshing.
>>REGINA: Did you find
yourself out in San Francisco?
>>PARKYN: Actually, I
got as far as Denver,
and traveled all
over the States.
Had a wonderful time.
It was a time when
people were hitchhiking.
There was a very open
atmosphere everywhere.
And I learned a
lot in that time.
I then went back to England.
I'd grown up on a farm, and
like to operate on the farm,
but a lot of machinery
would break down,
and I had no idea how to fix it.
So I decided to
learn how to fix it.
I ended up in
engineering school,
got a good degree
in engineering,
did an apprenticeship.
And as you said, I qualified
as a mechanical engineer.
Did quite a bit of
traveling like that.
I was involved in a National
Geographic diving expedition
off Greece.
I did yacht delivery from
the Bahamas to Europe
and got caught in a hurricane.
And there was no reason our
boat should have stayed afloat.
We should have sunk.
We came into the Azores in
the middle of the Atlantic,
and the harbor master
came down and said,
I don't know how you got
in here, because everything
else out there has sunk.
We can't even send
the life boat out.
And I had a realization
during that trip.
Life is very precious,
and I actually
had a viewing, what I could say,
through the veil at that time,
of just seeing there is an
alternative to what we accept
as the normal way of
things in this world.
>>REGINA: Did you you by
chance during all of that,
when you finally hit shore, did
you go on shore in the Azores?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And this
is a total aside.
How did you feel
about those energies?
Because it is said in
some ancient teachings
Mount Pico is a
remnant of Atlantis.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
It was very soothing.
It was very familiar.
It was different,
but very familiar
>>REGINA: Well, and
also, you had lived.
That's a good thing.
But soothing in another
sense of the word?
>>PARKYN: Yes, it was soothing.
You know, it was such a shock.
We were eight days and nights
being thrown around all
over the place.
>>REGINA: Oh, god,
I can't fathom.
>>PARKYN: --in this hurricane.
And as I say, we
should have sunk.
And even when we
came into the harbor,
the sea was breaking
right over the sea walls.
They had never seen
a storm like this,
the hurricane was just
there all the time.
>>REGINA: And you were the only
ship whose passengers survived?
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
Everything else sunk-- fishing
boats, small merchant ships.
Everything sank.
It was an ordeal.
>>REGINA: After it was over,
I don't mean to be trite,
but did you feel there must have
been some kind of protection
around your little
vehicle, you know?
>>PARKYN: Yes, absolutely.
>>REGINA: That this
happened for you all?
>>PARKYN: Yeah, yeah.
And it made it really clear.
You now, don't mess up.
Don't make a waste of your life.
That's what I really got
from that experience.
>>REGINA: So now after that,
your career as an engineer,
was that kind of before or
after this whole period?
>>PARKYN: No, that
was during the period.
>>REGINA: During the period.
That was a job you were out on.
OK.
>>PARKYN: I basically
was sent to the Bahamas
to fix up this boat, get
the engines in good shape,
get everything shipshape,
and sail it back to Europe.
And that's what we did.
>>REGINA: Now you've had
this harrowing experience,
and you're back.
You have this skill set.
What happened for you
to transition from that
to driving a magic bus?
>>PARKYN: Well, I went into
retreat for a couple of years.
It was such an
intense experience.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>PARKYN: I went and
lived in little croft
house in the Shetland Islands,
which is up by Norway.
Very remote.
The nearest house
was a mile away.
I had no telephone,
and it was storm swept.
And I did a little
bit of diving there.
Again, just keeping that
side of things open.
But it was a retreat period.
And then at the end of that
period, my father passed away.
And he was a great ally
for me in this lifetime.
He'd always been encouraging me
and empowering me in my life.
And it was a very sad
thing when he passed away.
I went back down to England,
went to his funeral,
took his ashes up to
a place in Scotland
that he'd loved, and
scattered the ashes for him.
Went back to this little
croft house again,
and I was sitting there, head in
hands, on a very stormy night,
and I felt him come into the
room when I was sitting there.
And I felt like he went
around the room a couple of.
Times and what I heard from
him was, it's all right,
you can go now.
And a sequence of
events just led me then
to finding this work.
I can hardly call it work.
It was like an adventure--
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>PARKYN: --driving the magic
bus backwards and forwards
from London to Kathmandu.
>>REGINA: I just love it.
I mean, that's really
akin to some of the buses
you used to see driving
around in Haight Ashbury
from an American point of view.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And how long would
one of these tours take?
And what kind of
people went on them?
>>PARKYN: Well, the tours would
take anything from three weeks
to three months, depending
on various uprisings
or breakdowns.
So whatever along the way.
But literally I set
off from London,
crossed the channel
with the bus,
and would go drive
to various cafes
around Europe, where people
would have been informed ahead
of time, magic bus is leaving.
Be here this night.
$60, one way to India.
And filled the bus up, 43 seats.
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
So you picked people
up along the way.
>>PARKYN: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: You didn't
start with a tour group?
>>PARKYN: No, no, no, no.
People just jumped on board.
Yes, I'm coming on this trip.
>>REGINA: $60, or pounds, or
well, there weren't euros then,
to India?
That's pretty cheap.
>>PARKYN: It was very cheap.
And it was an
extraordinary journey.
They were all seekers.
Many of them had
been in India before.
And I was the one
person on board
who had no idea
where we were going.
>>REGINA: You were the driver.
>>PARKYN: I was driving it.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: That's so exciting.
So you're still
now in your 20's.
>>PARKYN: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: So you end up
in India at one point,
and you must have
gone to an ashram.
Did you go to Pune?
Or where did you go?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
There was appointed times.
27 years old.
I'd done all kinds of trips
backwards and forwards.
I did a trip through Africa,
and down through the Sahara,
and across through Zaire.
And when I got to Kenya
at the end of the trip,
I basically hit the wall.
Nothing was making
sense to me anymore.
I had learned engineering.
I was good at it, but
it just didn't fit
in my life somehow or other.
So I flew to India, and I knew
I'd get my answer in India.
It was just one of those things.
India is a very amazing
place like that.
And sure enough, I ended up in
Osho's Ashram in Pune in India.
I later found out that 26 out of
the 43 people on that first bus
trip were on their way
there in the first place.
>>REGINA: Oh, so you didn't have
any context for that initially.
>>PARKYN: No idea at all.
>>REGINA: And what an amazing
experience in that time,
and also community.
And Osho himself-- I live in
Sedona, and in my early years
there, there were still a lot
of people-- there was a big Osho
community there.
They always had the most
pristine businesses, the best
aesthetics, cleanest
standards, best food.
What is it that fostered
that in that community
and through, I'm assuming,
some of the teachings of Osho
himself?
>>PARKYN: The commonality
of Osho's work
is that we live from our heart,
not so much from the head,
from the heart.
You know, and that's a common
thing amongst all his people,
is that there's very much
a heart energy involved.
I recognize his
people right away,
his senescence right away,
because that is the framework.
And he would say, you know, the
woman's way, or the heart way,
was definitely
something that needed
to be embraced in these times.
You know we're shifting
out of the Piscean Age.
We're in the Aquarius Age now.
It's a very, very
different thing.
It's an age of
personal empowerment.
And Osho's whole
thing was, look,
we've had the tribal
thing going on,
where it was always God's
fault, or the King's
fault, or the prime
minister's fault, or somebody.
The victim mentality.
We've moved into the
collective age, which
I suppose the Greeks started
with the democracy thing,
and we've come to
a point in time
now where that doesn't work.
And in the Aquarian
Age, it's all
about the power
of the individual,
that everybody has to take
responsibility for themself.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: So
probably what you've
experienced around
the people in Sedona
is that everybody takes
care for themself,
and they hold things
in a high frequency.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a
very high frequency.
And you know, most people
only remember the news clips
from Oregon.
That's all anyone
knows of Osho, is
this crazy guru with all the
Rolls Royces, and the so forth.
The people that have given up
everything to stay with him,
and he spent all their
money on Rolls Royces.
And that's what the
average person knows
when they hear the word Osho.
Can you tell us
who he really was?
Some of the background
of this individual?
Because I've read
some of his work.
He's brilliant.
>>PARKYN: He was
absolutely brilliant.
And the major part
of his brilliance
is he said nobody's ever
going to make a religion out
of anything he's
done, unlike what
happened to poor Jesus,
or Muhammad, or Buddha,
or everybody.
Basically, he said
one thing one time,
he would say the complete
opposite another time.
Brilliant logician.
He was the debating
champion in India.
>>REGINA: That's what
I remember reading.
>>PARKYN: And there was
this famous occasion where
he went to the
championship debate,
and his opponent didn't show up.
>>REGINA: He did both sides.
>>PARKYN: He did both sides
and won for his opponent.
[LAUGHING]
>>REGINA: I love it.
I love it.
But such a nuanced mind and
depth of understanding he had.
Why did he do the string
of Rolls-Royces and such?
What kind of statement was
he trying to make there?
>>PARKYN: How else are you
going to push people's buttons?
>>REGINA: He did it basically
just to go like this.
>>PARKYN: He said
it was a big joke.
How many cars can
you drive at once?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so he
was always pushing--
that was his whole point, was
to push buttons and break down
stereotypical
ideas of teachings.
>>PARKYN: We lived on this big
muddy ranch for five years.
And when it rained mud,
you know, foot thick mud,
it was a most
extraordinary exercise.
You know?
Plodding around, trying to
make things happen through mud.
And all the time,
you know, expanding
our sense of what it is
that was important for us.
There's a beautiful
Gurdjieffian exercise
that he used to do with his
disciples, George Gurdjieff.
Dig a hole.
You know, he'd
looked at the hole.
All right.
Now fill it up again.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARKYN: And that's pretty
much what we did at the ranch.
We built a whole city
there, and then we left.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>PARKYN: And it
was an exercise.
>>REGINA: But people
seem to still feel
so fondly about their days
when they were in community.
>>PARKYN: Wonderful fun.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>PARKYN: If you're
around people
and everyone's living
from their heart,
and everyone has the
common intention,
you know love is a very, very
essential component here,
we're all working on
behalf of each other,
there's no competitions
going on here,
we're just working for
each other, of course,
community is wonderful
when it's done
in a conscious way like that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
OK.
Now, we start getting into where
the story, your personal story,
transitions.
So he would give
lectures every day.
I don't know what the technical
word was for what he did.
But he lectured each day.
And people would
always have questions.
And there were too many,
too many personal questions,
so he would send those
people to a shadow reader.
>>PARKYN: Indirectly.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about that.
>>PARKYN: He would
put out a suggestion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: You know,
I'm confronted
with everyone's personal
questions every day.
There's far too many
questions-- because there
were thousands of people
there, from all over the world.
And the suggestion
would be, if you really
want to find out about
yourself, there's
a man that lives in Bombay,
now Mumbai, go and talk to him.
He'll tell you everything.
And you'll never need to
ask me another question.
So I was very quiet
in those days.
I took him up on that,
and I went to Bombay.
It was quite a
trip getting there.
>>REGINA: How far is
it from Pune to Bombay?
>>PARKYN: It's 150 miles,
something like that.
So it was a train ride down
the hill, catch the train
first thing in the morning,
taxi ride around Bombay.
The guy had no idea where
we were trying to go.
So around and around in circles.
And finally, we find
where this building is.
And I knock on the door, and
he comes to the door and says,
oh great.
I was expecting you.
Yeah?
I hadn't made any kind of
appointment I was aware of.
But anyhow, he said, go
downstairs with my son.
He's going to take
a measurement.
And then come back upstairs,
and I'll tell you all about it.
OK.
So we go downstairs
to the parking lot.
And he's got this
funny looking ruler
with color markings on it.
I stand barefoot
in the parking lot.
He takes his measurement.
I wasn't paying attention.
I have no idea who
he was measuring,
whether it was my shoulder, or
the top of my head, my aura,
whatever he was measuring.
Back upstairs, he
gives his father
the calculation or
the numbers he's got.
Dad makes a calculation.
He asked for my birth date.
Does an astrological
calculation for that.
Asks me my name.
Does a neurological
calculation for that.
He's now triangulated three
different calculations.
He's got this huge long
bookshelf behind his desk.
Throws his chair along, and
it's about seven or eight layers
of books.
All these books look
identical to me.
He pulls out one book,
brings it back to the table,
opens to a page,
and starts reading.
>>REGINA: Now you say they
were all black, you told me.
>>PARKYN: The covers.
>>REGINA: All the
books were black?
>>PARKYN: The covers on them.
You know, the bindings.
>>REGINA: Yeah, the
bindings are all black.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Do they have
anything written on the spine?
>>PARKYN: I was not honestly
not paying attention.
>>REGINA: So you have
these rows and rows
and rows of black books.
Sounds like a novel I read
recently, but go ahead.
OK.
So he pulls out of a black book.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
A specific one.
You know, he's done
this calculation.
He opens up to a
specific page and starts
reading for me, a thousand
lifetimes ago this,
hundred lifetimes ago that,
10 lifetimes ago the other.
Last week, this week, next week.
Parents' names, religion
you were brought up in,
work you've been doing.
And he took-- the
>>REGINA: And was he accurate?
>>PARKYN: Spot on.
>>REGINA: Everything?
>>PARKYN: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Out of this book
were your parents' names?
Everything?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: This is
just-- I mean--
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: This really
begs a lot of questions.
>>PARKYN: Comprehensible.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: You know, you can
imagine I'm sitting there.
I'm 27 years old.
Apparently, I don't know
up from down anymore.
And he's just telling
me everything.
>>REGINA: Well, OK.
So this does beg a
lot of questions.
And one of them, I
would like to ask
you is as he was telling
you about these lifetimes,
were there any kind
of common threads
that you could see in yourself
that led to what you are now?
>>PARKYN: At of time, yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: But in this
particular moment in time,
honestly, I can't remember.
>>REGINA: But you recognize
kind of trends passing through?
>>PARKYN: It was obvious, yes.
It was like he
kept hitting notes,
and the notes were just
always in the right key.
>>REGINA: You must have been,
in your parlance, gobsmacked.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
Very well put.
>>REGINA: I mean,
how- I mean, have you
since figured out what that
was, and who would have made
such recordings in these books?
And explain this to us,
because this means there's
a predestiny to everything.
>>PARKYN: OK.
There's a predestiny, but just
like a river will come down
the hill into a tributary,
and the tributary
will go various different
ways into the ocean,
it's the same kind of thing.
He was able to point out
certain possible routes
that my life would take.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: So it wasn't
like the destiny
was absolutely fixed in stone.
But certainly, everything
leading up to this moment,
it was up to me to make a clear
choice what was to happen next.
>>REGINA: So it would have been
marked there not as past tense,
so to speak, but the
readings essentially
would have stopped at the point
they knew you would find him.
Who in the world would
have recorded all this?
>>PARKYN: Except he was
also telling the potentials
for further on [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: Right, right, right.
But they weren't set, like your
mother's name, father's name,
so forth.
>>PARKYN: What I've since
understood is that some 3,000,
4,000 years ago, all of this
information was channeled.
It may be even longer than
3,000, 4,000 years ago.
It was channeled
and it was inscribed
in a way in a technology that
we're not aware of anymore.
>>REGINA: There is a
popular book out now called
"Book of Souls," and the story's
based on this very topic,
but that it was generation
after generation of monks.
It was in a monastery in France.
Could have been England,
but I think France.
And they discovered these books,
book after book after book,
called "The Book of Souls," and
it told your birth, your death,
your name, all of this.
And they were downloading
this information.
>>PARKYN: What I understand
in this Indian tradition,
it was one person that did it.
>>REGINA: How could they
even do that in a lifetime?
>>PARKYN: Exactly.
They say it's a technology that
we're not aware of anymore.
The power of the mind, you know?
The power of the
brilliance in humanity
that is yet to reappear.
>>REGINA: This is just to
me such a fascinating part
of your story in and of itself.
>>PARKYN: So anyway, he gets to
the end of his reading with me,
and he closes the book up,
and he turns to me and says,
I want you to come and
work with me, because you
know how to do this work.
>>REGINA: Now there's
another surprise for you.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
I mean, it's like, huh?
You know, I'm an engineer.
Well, apparently a
retiring engineer now,
because you're telling
me that something else is
going to happen in my life.
And you know, I paused
to think about it.
It's like, what
does that involve?
And it means moving
here to Mumbai.
It means learning Sanskrit.
It means learning this whole
new thing-- and it's like, no,
I've just come out of university
and all these years of struggle
trying to learn
engineering and stuff--
>>REGINA: I went to
public boy's school.
>>PARKYN: Yes, exactly.
It's like I need a break now.
I need something different.
So basically, I
turned him down flat.
And he thought that
was very funny.
He just cracked up laughing.
Because here was I
with somebody who
couldn't see being offered
something by the world
expert who could see.
He could see exactly what
my life and capabilities
was about.
And I was turning him down.
And when he stopped laughing, he
said, well, it doesn't matter,
because you're going
to do this work anyhow.
Because there's a system that's
going to come into your life.
You're going to
write books about it.
It's going to go out
in many languages.
It's going to go into
all corners of the world.
It's going to be introduced
to thousands of people
all over the world.
And it's going to change
their lives forever.
And I said, OK.
That sounds great.
You know, thank you.
Thank you for sharing.
>>REGINA: Can't see.
Nothing there.
Shadowed.
>>PARKYN: He said
well, then, what
I would suggest for you is
before this system shows up
in your life, learn some
way of being able to read
for people-- because you've
got this gift-- be able to read
for people to tell them
things about themselves
that they've forgotten
or that they don't know.
And I said OK.
Great.
Thank you.
So I left that reading,
went back up to Pune again.
I was in the Ashram for a week.
And I was working in the
boutique in the Ashram in Pune.
The boutique, basically, there
were about four guys in there.
And everyone else was a woman.
It was a completely
feminine atmosphere.
It was just wonderful.
You know for somebody
that had been
in boy's boarding school and
engineering school and all
that stuff--
>>REGINA: Beautiful colors,
and fabric, and lotion.
>>PARKYN: --I was bathed in
this wonderful feminine energy.
And sure enough, you
know, it being a boutique,
they sold a lot of
clothes, a lot of items.
And a lot of it was
brought in from outside,
from the community in Pune.
And this one lady was delivering
this whole new set of outfits,
and robes, and things.
And her husband came along.
And he was a
psychic palm reader.
And we were just sitting
there passing the time of day.
And he said I'd like
to look at your hands.
Fine, you know.
So I show him my hands.
And he starts telling me
a whole bunch of things
that the shadow reader had
told me the week before.
And then he insists on
showing me how to read hands.
I say, OK, fine.
So you know he shows me
around the hands, what all
the markings and the swirlings.
For about 10 minutes he shows
me everything he can show me.
Folds my hand up, and says
that's enough now, practice.
OK.
So I go home to
where I'm staying
that night in the funky
little hotel outside Pune.
And I'm sitting with my friends
in the outdoor restaurant
there at the table.
And I'm saying you know the
funniest thing happened today.
This guy showed me
how to read hands.
And in the space of
about 10 seconds,
the table is covered
with people's hands.
Everybody in the restaurant
gets up from their table,
comes and puts their
hands, even the waiter
comes over and puts his hands--
>>REGINA: And you've had
10 minutes of instruction.
>>PARKYN: Right.
And it starts from there.
And apparently, you know, this
gift just started happening.
So yes, I spent many,
many years reading
for anybody that would hold
their hands out for me.
I learned to read tea
leaves, coffee grinds, auras,
tarot cards--
>>REGINA: Because it's
really all the same.
>>PARKYN: It's all the same.
It's a wonderful--
>>REGINA: It's a divination
tool for your own sight.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: So now
you end up in Maui.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And you end up
meeting this character
named Ra at some point.
You were turned on to
his work in human design.
Let's pick that up.
>>PARKYN: So, yes.
I'm living in Maui.
And this friend of mine who
lives in Taos, New Mexico,
sends me a chart.
And she says you're
going to want to see this
because I think it's
going to be something
that's interesting for you.
And it's my Human Design chart.
I take one look at
this chart and I
know right away this
is what the shadow
reader had told me about.
This was the system.
It was a new system.
It had been downloaded in 1987.
I'd had my reading
in India in 1979.
So 1987, the system comes in,
to this man who just apparently
wasn't expecting it to happen.
And he was making
this travel to America
to come and introduce
it over here.
And my friend was going
to be hosting him.
And she sent me his chart.
And for the next seven
years, twice a year,
I would fly from Maui to Taos to
go and join in with his classes
whenever he came.
>>REGINA: Now this is a
very reluctant person.
This is not what he chose
for him, his own life.
I think it's fair to
say reluctant, if not,
violently, reluctant at times.
>>PARKYN: He was put
upon is all I can say.
On some level, he
had made an agreement
to download this system.
But he said he wasn't
given any kind of a choice.
For eight days and
nights he was bombarded
with this information.
This was a highly
intelligent man, Ra,
and high IQ and everything.
Very capable.
And he said the intelligence of
the entity that was giving him
this information
made him feel like he
was an ant, the height of the
intelligence of the information
that was coming through.
At the end of eight
days and nights,
somehow, he survived
the experience.
His nervous system was shot.
But slowly--
>>REGINA: Was he writing and
drawing at the same time?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
His table was covered
with diagrams.
>>REGINA: Everything
that was downloading.
>>PARKYN: Everything.
Apparently, all esoteric
systems were included
in the original download.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: And The
unfortunate thing
was he started sharing the
information with people.
And then arrived
at a point in time
when he was very uncomfortable
with how people were perceiving
him, like as a guru
or somebody that
had this special knowledge.
And he basically destroyed all
the information he was given.
Burned it and went off and
lived in the hills for a year.
And finally, recovered
from this very--
>>REGINA: Shocking experience.
>>PARKYN: Indeed.
And fortunately came back.
Somebody had kept their chart.
They hadn't give it
to him to destroy.
And from that chart he
started rebuilding everything.
And there were parts
of Human Design
that I guess have
been lost forever.
But there are other parts that
have been very, very clearly--
he was able to remember
it and this original chart
was able to show him
what he'd been given.
And when he came to America,
he was still very much in tune
with the purity of
the information that
had been given to him.
And in those early days,
we started exploring
in the classes that he gave.
>>REGINA: How many people were
in that early wave of students?
>>PARKYN: There were probably
a dozen people to start with.
And then it started
expanding, maybe 20.
I kept going.
And there just came
a point in time
when all of a sudden I realized
what was now being interpreted
in the information was
actually stretching away
from the original purity
of what had come through.
So I just started going
my own way with it.
And yes, it was a little
bit of a struggle at first,
because there had built
up a community around him.
He started pulling
together entities
to be the official Human Design.
>>REGINA: And
you're breaking away
so you had to go on the
outside of that comfort zone.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I have interviewed
one other person, essentially,
on this called The Gene
Codes which is Richard Rudd.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: And I think you were
a teacher to him, initially?
Or you exposed him to it?
Or how did that go?
>>PARKYN: Well he was living
on Maui and we were introduced.
And yes, I read for him.
I read for his wife.
>>REGINA: And then
he was like you.
He just said this is it.
>>PARKYN: Yeah, he did.
He got it right away.
He recognized it.
We became firm friends.
And he went back to England.
And he got this very, very
potent download in 2004
when the planet Venus
was doing that transit
across the face of the
sun-- you might remember it.
And he downloaded
what he described
as the Venus Sequence.
And from that came
The Gene Keys.
And, yeah, he's
done wonderful work.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And you know when
I was first exposed
to Human Design maybe 15, 16
years ago-- because I'm open.
I'm open minded.
I kind of check everything out.
But I found it to be the most
functionally useful system.
It wasn't just explaining
what your traits are,
your attributes, what you
brought in with this, where
a challenge might lie,
how you express yourself,
but ways in which to function.
Is that really kind of the
point of it to a large extent?
>>PARKYN: It is absolutely
a tool for these times.
There is nothing
like Human Design.
It's a huge gift for humanity.
And basically, we've
got to realize,
you know, foundationally
nobody knows what life is.
We're sitting here,
we're carrying on
as though we do
know what life is.
But nobody really knows.
And you can ask Jesus, Buddha,
Mohammed, anybody, they don't
really know what this thing is.
We're just having
this experience.
So we come into this world.
We come in as a clear, pure
being on a soul journey
through life to have this
experience on planet Earth.
And we're born in a
particular family that
has particular ways of living.
You know they're
either wealthy or not
or they have these
preconditions of how they live.
They've got a religion perhaps.
They've got a society or a
group of friends around them.
And then we get
trammelled off to school.
And we get told history about
everybody else and nothing
about ourselves.
And we get layers and layers
and layers of conditioning
put on top of us.
Everybody else's ideas of what
might be appropriate or not,
and so-and-so did this.
And we get completely befuddled.
The very last thing
we're instructed to do
is be true to our own nature,
this pure all wonderful
essence.
So Human Design basically
gives you a blueprint.
It gives you the operator's
manual for your own life.
And that's why I say
it's such a huge gift.
Because there you
are in this chart,
you can see exactly the design
that you come in to play out.
And let's face it.
In this universe,
universe is very generous.
There are no duplicates.
No grains of sand in the
whole planet are the same.
So no people are
living the same life.
>>REGINA: So you've never
seen identical charts?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
On the face of things,
I see identical charts.
But you know there are
layers and layers and layers.
And over the years, yes, I get
to see between these layers.
So I've read for twins
born minutes apart.
And on the face of things,
they have the same chart,
but when I read for them they
get their own very particular
experience of it.
>>REGINA: Well
when you first came
into the studio, or in
the makeup room, and all
that-- not that you
needed any makeup-- we
had a couple of
different people ask
about their particular chart.
One of them I gave
the heads up and said
print one out before
it shuts down,
so you can be meet Chetan.
And you zeroed right in.
I mean instantly,
right to the heart
of the life, the heart
of the purpose, exactly
what that person's doing, even
attempting to doing further.
And the same thing
again on another chart.
This is who you are.
You live for spirit.
You are this.
And it's so quick.
It's so direct.
>>PARKYN: Yes
>>REGINA: It's such
a mirror for someone
to be able to hold a
vision of themselves
that they couldn't see.
They may have felt it.
They may being experiencing it.
But they can't see it.
>>PARKYN: Right So having
this reading at the age of 27
in India and being just
told your whole life
is turning into
something different.
And it's not what
you're thinking it is.
And just having that sensation,
oh, I can look outside the box
here and be able to provide
that for people in their lives
in this time, it's like yes.
You don't have to
follow everybody else.
You don't have to go along with
everybody else's rules systems.
You are here to be you,
a perfect expression
of consciousness in human form.
>>REGINA: So when you had your
first Human Design reading,
you saw the chart and had
the first explanation,
did it have that effect on you?
Did it see you?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
>>REGINA: I suppose
or you wouldn't
have recognized instantly
that this was the system.
>>PARKYN: It just shows
all your strengths.
It shows all the areas where
you're going to be challenged.
It shows where you get to
play in this lifetime, where
you interact best
with other people.
Who are the people you're
going to get on well with?
Who are the ones that are really
going to understand you best?
But it really is your
own operator's manual,
your perfect design.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And when you look
at a chart, it has
a little bit of a tree
of life quality to it.
>>PARKYN: It's got all kinds
of wonderful fastens in it.
>>REGINA: It has I Ching.
It has everything
loaded in there.
>>PARKYN: It's like a cake mix.
You put all kinds of
different ingredients
like the I Ching, astrology,
Qabalah, chakra system,
mix it in with a little bit of
genetics and neutrino physics.
Mix it up and cook it
and there's your cake.
And you've got something
that's revolutionary.
>>REGINA: Yes, indeed.
So when one's
looking at a chart--
and we'll take a
look at one-- we'll
let the viewers look at
this chart right now.
Just as in a chart.
You'll see that some centers
have colors and are filled
in with triangles or squares.
And some of them have little
colored pathways between them.
And other things
are completely open.
It's just there's nothing there.
Explain what that means to have
a center that is filled in,
colored/defined
versus undefined.
>>PARKYN: OK.
Well let's be clear
before we get in here.
There is no such thing as a
good chart or a bad chart.
Right?
Because in this time of reading
for people, all kinds of people
said, oh, I don't want to
hear anything about myself.
You'll tell me
something dreadful.
And it's absolutely not
the case with Human Design.
This is a clear
reflection of who you are.
So when you see, on the chart,
that one of these centers--
there are nine of these
centers-- when it's colored in,
it means it's turned on and
operating 24 hours a day.
And it's turned on
to operate according
to the particular connection
it has to another center.
So all the centers have various
ways in which they can connect.
So for instance, if we're
talking about the mind,
we could say there's a logical
way of thinking about stuff
and there's an illogical
way of thinking about stuff.
Right?
There's science and
there's a belief systems.
Right?
So depending on the
connection that you
might have into the mind
center in your chart,
that will show you
your way in which
you access mental strategies.
>>REGINA: Well, for example,
you and I have similar charts.
There were similar typology
which we'll go to in a moment.
But we have one where the
triangle on the forehead
is connected to the
one in the throat.
And that pathway's filled in.
So explain what that would
mean, for example, to someone.
>>PARKYN: OK.
So colored in center, the mind
center, we color in green.
This is our thinking
process, our biocomputer.
The fact that it's colored
in means it's operating 24/7.
>>REGINA: So the mind's
eye always going.
>>PARKYN: Always going.
You probably have noticed
that in your life.
It doesn't stop.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
My ex-husband said do
you ever stop thinking?
>>PARKYN: Nope.
And so how do you get into
a place of meditation?
You know, if the
mind's going to keep
on rattling away, and telling
you look at this, look at that,
look at the other.
The only way you can
get into meditation
is through
transcending your mind.
You're just going to say thank
you very much for sharing.
Right now I'm not going to
be paying attention to you.
You know, think
anything you want.
I'll be back.
>>REGINA: Right.
And so now you
have it connected.
And so to look at the
relational part of
say what this connection
would mean to the throat.
>>PARKYN: Your thoughts
are expressed according
to this particular channel.
So there are three
channels between the mind
and the throat.
You've got the one
in the middle which
is one that's always
expressing insight.
So you get an insight,
you express it.
It's not necessarily
a logical thing.
an illogical thing.
It's like this is what
my mind is telling me,
this is what I know,
take it or leave it.
>>REGINA: So you express it.
So that's the relational
aspect of say those two.
Now let's say that you have the
heart center that is filled in.
Now which one is the heart?
>>PARKYN: It's the
little triangle center.
The little red triangle center.
>>REGINA: Little
red triangle center.
OK.
And let's say what would the
heart be next to and often
connected to, for example?
And how would that appear?
>>PARKYN: The heart center
has four possible connections.
So if we're talking
statistics, most people
don't have it colored in.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Why is that?
>>PARKYN: It's just statistics.
>>REGINA: It's undefined.
>>PARKYN: It's undefined.
>>REGINA: But why
is that in humanity
that the heart would be
undefined and not on 24/7?
In the majority
of the population?
>>PARKYN: Well, let's just say.
We're reading this in
terms of the energy of it,
what the heart stands for.
And it starts from
our value systems.
That's what it stands for.
Value systems.
What do we give value to?
In our heart of hearts,
what do we want out of life?
And the fact that most people
have it colored in white
and not defined, not
consistent, means
that on a consistent
basis, they don't really
know what they want.
>>REGINA: Yeah, interesting.
OK.
>>PARKYN: So don't make
a problem out of it.
Just say oh well,
life's offering me
all kinds of things.
Sooner or later I'll
find out what it is
that really has value for me.
But in the meantime
I don't need to copy
everybody else with what their
sense of values might be.
>>REGINA: Right.
So you're still open also
to embracing the new.
>>PARKYN: You can
start becoming--
the thing with the
white centers is
they're not fixed to operate
in any particular way.
They can accrue wisdom
over time of, particularly
the heart center, of what it
is that really does hold value.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now that let's do this.
So we'll let people look
at this on the screen.
We'll start from the very top.
And then tell us the name
of it and its function.
And you can give the
color to it, too,
just so everyone knows
we're all together here.
And on each of the nine centers,
just a really quick tour
through the nine centers
and what they mean.
>>PARKYN: All right.
My pleasure.
So nine centers.
right?
If we're talking
chakra systems, we're
talking perhaps seven centers.
So let's just say the
human condition has evolved
to have nine centers now.
The one right at the
top, the crown center,
it's unique in the chart.
It only connects to one other
center, that's the mine center.
And it's shown as partly
in the body and partly out
of the body.
It's up here somewhere.
It's a source of inspiration,
relates to the pituitary gland.
Right?
And so we download inspiration.
And this crown center
processes that inspiration
or holds that possibility
for inspiration.
To be inspired by what's
this, what's that.
Does this make sense?
Does this fit the picture?
The mind center beneath
it is colored in green.
The crown center would
be colored in yellow
if it's turned on 24/7.
The green mind center, that you
and I both have in our designs,
we're always thinking.
And there are these different
ways in which we think.
And this is the pineal gland.
So we're processing stuff.
We might call it the
third eye center.
We might see it in that way.
There are connections
to the throat where
we get to express what it
is that's been going on
in our mind.
And the throat center has a
brown color if it's colored in,
if it's defined.
And it's the most complex
of all the centers.
It's the thyroid and
parathyroid glands.
It's where we get to
express ourselves in life,
whether it's through
the words that we use
or whether the actions
that we play out.
Down beneath the throat
center is a diamond center
in the middle.
If it's defined, it's
colored in yellow.
And this is the
self center, relates
to the liver, the filtration
system in the body,
if you will.
And it gives us our sense
of direction, purpose,
connectedness, and love in life.
So if it's defined,
it's something
that's always available to you.
You're consistent in who you
are and how you play things out.
>>REGINA: Now is that
sometimes referred to
as the egoic center?
>>PARKYN: Not so much.
>>REGINA: Not so much.
OK.
So it's just defined as self.
>>PARKYN: Self.
identity in a sense.
>>REGINA: Self identity.
OK good.
>>PARKYN: So those that have
it colored in, they have
a consistency in who they are.
Those like myself,
and yourself, we
have it colored in white
where basically we're
constantly changing who we are.
>>REGINA: I just tell
someone to tell me.
It's like I need a
mirror to figure it out.
>>PARKYN: It's a
fascinating thing.
You go to a party.
You stand with one
group of friends
on one side of the room.
That is who you are while
you're in that group.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>PARKYN: You are reflecting
that group back to itself.
>>REGINA: It's like a chameleon.
>>PARKYN: Exactly.
And then you go and
join another group
and that's who you
are in that group,
according to the connections
that other people give you,
or what it is that
defines the present--
>>REGINA: Verses
that consistency
that you are what you are
no matter what circumstance.
>>PARKYN: So what I say
about the white centers,
they're where we get to play.
We play in the energy
fields of other people.
And it's a great play.
But the whole thing
is don't hang on
to any particular characteristic
that somebody else
might have in that center.
It's just while
they're there, you're
accruing the wisdom
perhaps of what it is--
>>REGINA: It's not who you are.
>>PARKYN: It's not
the consistency.
So it's the same with
any of these centers.
An undefined mind, you're
processing other people
thought patterns.
And undefined throat, you're
saying things for other people
they can't say for themselves.
>>REGINA: OK.
These are good distinctions.
So we've come to the center
of identity or self, yellow.
And then where do we go?
>>PARKYN: Then we go to the
little triangle center--
the heart center we were
just talking about-- what
we want out of life.
>>REGINA: And that's red?
>>PARKYN: If it's
defined, it's red.
So if you have it
defined, you'll
see that you've got
this will power.
You can make things happen.
You know you've got this drive,
this push, to make things work.
And it's very efficient.
Let's just get it done, get
it complete, and on we go.
But the difficulty
here comes when
people have their
center colored white
and they insist on trying
to use willpower that they
don't have consistent access.
So then they start
straining their heart
or getting a whole
bunch of stuff
in their life they don't
want and they don't need.
But you know it
just somehow it--
>>REGINA: How does
a person manifest
what they desire if they
don't have that filled in
and they don't have
the natural will power?
>>PARKYN: Well that's part of
the beauty of Human Design.
We all have our
operators manual.
It's not like we're not given
an ignition key here, right?
Everybody has their unique
way of engaging in life.
So the great thing
is to see there
are no good charts, no bad
charts, no good centers,
no bad centers.
If you have the heart
center colored in,
you have this consistency
and willpower.
If you have it
colored white, you
are here to be wise
about the nature of what
it is in life that holds value.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now what's the next center?
>>PARKYN: You go to the
left side of the chart,
we have the spleen center.
The triangle center
that's on it's side.
The spleen center relates
to our immune system, health
and well-being.
It's like the washing machine
in the body, the lymph system.
And it has its own
very particular way
of keeping the body healthy.
The immune system's
quite a scene
in terms of how it deals with
bacteria and viruses and stuff.
So if you got it colored
in, colored brown,
it's turned on 24/7.
You bring this sense of
well-being and health
wherever you go.
For people that have
it colored in white,
you're susceptible to picking
up other people's discomfort,
in a way.
And the great thing is to
be very clear about that.
You can be very
good at diagnosing
other people's
sense of well-being
with an undefined spleen center.
With a defined
spleen center, you're
here helping everybody
else feel fit and well.
But again, there
can come a point
where you over commit yourself.
And if you do get
sick, there's a chance
of getting really sick.
So the spleen center survival,
it has a fear issue around it.
What does the body need
to do to protect itself?
So people can get very
easily stuck in fears.
And if you've gotten this
center colored in white,
recognize you're running
somebody else's fear patterns.
>>REGINA: So from the spleen
center, where do we go?
>>PARKYN: So from
the spleen center,
we go across to the
middle of the chart
and the second one up from the
bottom is the sacred center.
And this is the sex center, the
center of life force energy.
And with Human Design, we
call it the generator center.
If it's defined,
it's colored red.
If it's not, it's colored white.
Most people-- we're
talking nearly 70%
of the world's population--
have their center colored in,
defined.
So most people fall
into type that we
call generator or
manifesting generator,
because they have this trem--
>>REGINA: Is that one of
the marks of the generator
is that's filled in?
>>PARKYN: That is the mark.
>>REGINA: That's the mark.
>>PARKYN: The mark.
>>REGINA: So the rest
of the population
with the white center, they're
not generators, obviously.
>>PARKYN: They're not
generators or manifestors.
So if that center
is colored in, you
are somebody who is generating
life force energy 24 hours
a day.
Right?
It's an amazing thing.
>>REGINA: That's
a lot of energy.
>>PARKYN: It's a lot of energy.
And you know the foundational
law of the universe?
Life begets more life.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PARKYN: So this sacral
center is constantly
looking for ways in which to
propel this life force out
into the world.
>>REGINA: So these
are the people that
have the energy to go and do.
>>PARKYN: Well yes.
>>REGINA: To a large extent.
We're going to get to
that in a little bit.
>>PARKYN: But they've never been
told how to use this energy.
>>REGINA: We'll wait.
We'll finish the centers
then go to the typology.
OK.
Let's go over, I guess
to the right from there?
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
But let's just say
no good or bad you.
You know, if it's
colored in, great.
If it's not colored in,
it's also fantastic.
You've got your
own way of living.
right?
It's not like you're lacking
in energy in some way or other.
>>REGINA: OK
>>PARKYN: To the right side,
we have the emotional center,
the solar plexus center.
Energetically,
this is two inches
below the navel, a
little bit on the inside.
And this is almost like
the center of gravity
for humanity, the emotions.
I would say this is a major
reason Human Design actually
came to the planet at this
time, because as human beings,
we have not understood
our emotions very well.
>>REGINA: Are most
people, percentage wise,
emotionally defined?
>>PARKYN: Inevitably,
if they're not defined,
they'll get in a
relationship with somebody
and they will be defined
in that partnership.
OK So everybody needs to
understand about this emotion
center.
Emotions run in a
wave, up everything's
fabulous, down everything's
not so fabulous.
Oh, hang on, I'm feeling
great again, oh no,
not feeling so good anymore.
>>REGINA: So this
is very typical
if you're defined in the
emotions in particular?
>>PARKYN: Yes, in particular.
However everybody gets
caught up in emotion.
The moment we understand about
emotion, or as I say we're
in this Aquarian age now, where
war is a thing of the past.
The violence and all that
stuff, it's got to go.
Right?
Because it's not constructive,
it's not creative anymore.
So we all have to understand
the nature of emotion.
And the thing of it is
if you're high as a kite
and you're having
a wonderful day,
there aren't any
problems for you.
But if you're at the bottom
of your wave and somebody
says something to trigger
you, then there's an argument.
Then there's a fight.
And then there's all
kinds of unpleasantness.
>>REGINA: Or they
put you on lithium
because you're manic depressive.
>>PARKYN: There's that, too.
So to understand about
the emotion center,
it's the pleasure.
It's also the pain center.
It's the center of addictions.
I just want to stay up.
I don't want to go down.
And so very, very
important for people
that have this center
colored in to understand they
have both ends of the wave.
And they have to acknowledge
and honor both ends of the wave.
And part of the owner's manual,
which we'll perhaps talk about,
is the authority is how to
make decisions emotionally.
Very, very important
thing to understand.
Undefined emotions?
You're very susceptible to
other people's emotions.
>>REGINA: Oh, yes.
I've experienced that.
>>PARKYN: Don't buy into it.
>>REGINA: Right, I mean,
I am emotionally defined,
but I watch how
whatever I'm feeling
is being projected through
someone who's not defined.
>>PARKYN: They
have their own way
of deciding whether they
want to have anything
to do with you when you're
running your emotions or not.
And they have to honor
that truth in themself.
>>REGINA: OK.
And so that will
come under authority.
>>PARKYN: Right
>>REGINA: Now, what's
the remaining center?
>>PARKYN: The root center
at the bottom of the chart.
And this relates
to the adrenals.
And the adrenals used to
be our escape mechanism.
You know there's a
danger, run for your life.
And these days it's more about
survival in the 21st century.
So the root center is all about
the pressure, the pressure
to engage in life.
It has connections
to the spleen.
to the sacral.
It has connections to
the emotion center.
It is just a pressure.
So if you have it
colored in, you're
somebody who is always operating
under a certain pressure
to commit yourself one
way or another in life.
If you have it
undefined, same as
with any of the other
undefined centers,
you are susceptible to
other people's pressures.
So in life, especially
in the 21st century,
pressure is kind
of a normal thing.
But there comes a point where
pressure moves into stress.
And if you're running
stress, the chances
are you're running
according to somebody else's
input in your life.
OK You're either
going on their timing,
their way of doing something,
and to be very, very
clear about that.
>>REGINA: All right.
Now we'll get to the types,
the five types, and then
the notion of authority.
>>PARKYN: OK.
So what we found
in Human Design is
through the combinations of
centers that are colored in,
or not colored in, there are
five distinct energy types.
What we look to the
majority of people,
they either have a generator or
a manifesting generator design.
That means they have that red
sacral center-- the second one
up from the bottom of
the chart colored in.
>>REGINA: So this
well of energy to do.
>>PARKYN: The life
force energy, yes.
What am I going to
do with this energy?
>>REGINA: And maybe a lot of
times like physical activity
and that sort of
thing, working out?
And that's more natural.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
And it's a generator energy.
It gets them a momentum.
It builds up a momentum.
And once momentum
is built up, it's
very, very hard to stop it.
So generators and
manifesting generators,
they hate trying to quit.
They've got to be clear
at the outset of anything
they get involved in.
So there's no off
switch, basically.
But most generators and
manifesting generators
just have never been told
how to use this energy.
What's inside them tells them
to get involved with something.
>>REGINA: Maybe you can explain
that because a lot of get
burnt out.
>>PARKYN: Indeed they do.
They have what we
call a gut response.
And it's a pure, gut response.
It's not a mental process.
It's not philosophical.
There's no guilt
trips around it.
It's just interested, not now.
Uh-huh, un-uh.
It's as simple as that.
That is a gut response.
Uh-huh, you've got my attention.
Un-uh, not now.
I don't care what it is.
You can offer me the
universe, not now.
Come back next week, ask
me again some other time.
>>REGINA: So asking.
This is part of the process
that works well for them right?
>>PARKYN: Yes
>>REGINA: They see
their answer when
it comes out of their mouth.
>>PARKYN: Well it can
come out of their mouth,
but more it's going to
be an energetic response.
So generators and
manifesting generators,
they're always
looking for situations
where people, particularly,
will come and ask you
want to do this?
Uh-huh, well apparently I do.
Do you want to do that?
Mmm.
Not now.
And it's as simple as that.
>>REGINA: And honor it.
>>PARKYN: And honor it, yes.
That is the important thing.
If it's not now, it's
not happening now.
>>REGINA: Otherwise
you risk depletion.
>>PARKYN: Immediately.
I mean, most generators,
they'll find themselves
they have certain good days.
But generally
speaking, they come
to a state of exhaustion
and frustration,
because all this
wonderful energy
is being put towards things that
don't bring them fulfillment.
>>REGINA: OK.
So that's generator,
manifesting generator.
Now let's go to the next
which is projectors.
>>PARKYN: Projector, about
20% of the world's population.
You and I are both projectors.
Projectors, we're
naturally guides.
We help people to
align their energies
in ways that are really
going to work well for them.
We give information.
We help people come together.
We help direct.
And we're non-energy
types for the most part.
We don't have this
life force energy,
the same sustained energy that
generators and manifesting
generators have.
It's just different like that
So the difficulty
for a projector
is the majority of
people have this energy,
and we think why shouldn't I
join in with everybody else?
Shouldn't I just jump in there?
And what we find
is we jump in there
and we very quickly
run out of energy.
Or we find that
well, actually, this
is not the right place for you.
And so we kind of withdraw and
say oh, what's wrong with me.
And how come I just
don't fit in there?
And it's all about
for projectors
to recognize the very specific
nature of our own design--
which is all very clear in
the Human Design chart--
and to live according
to that, and to not
feel like we have to
join in with everything
but be prepared to be
invited into things.
>>REGINA: Invited in is
a key one for projectors.
>>PARKYN: Invited because we're
being recognized for who we are
and what we can contribute.
>>REGINA: This is
one of the areas
that when I had my very first
reading by Carolyn Ford years
ago, she said you have
to wait to be invited.
And I thought oh, god, I wish
I had known that 20 years ago.
Because every time I tried
to make something happen,
to beat on a door, or
make something happen,
it inevitably failed.
But if I just dreamt my
dreams, a call would happen.
And I'd be invited.
And everything I wanted
and more would happen.
I still do that to this day.
I can't seem make
anything happen.
I have to be invited.
>>PARKYN: So I'm going to
rephrase it a little bit.
You don't have to
wait to be invited.
The invitations are wonderful.
But it is, as you say, it's
about being conscious of what
it is in the life
around you that
resonates your frequency, your
very particular frequency.
So it's very possible for
projectors to put out you
know this is
something I'd really
like to call into my life.
>>REGINA: I do that.
>>PARKYN: And sure enough,
the invitation comes.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
It's the invitation.
>>PARKYN: So what most
projectors are being told
is, oh, no you've just got
to sit on the sidelines
until something happens.
And it's actually
far from the truth.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, it's just not sending out
your resume to 100 companies.
That kind of thing.
>>PARKYN: It's being
very particular
about what resonates with
your very particular nature.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Now we're going to
talk about manifestors.
They're interesting people.
>>PARKYN: Very interesting.
And we all say, oh, I'd
love to be a manifestor.
Actually manifestors don't
have such a great better
deal than anybody else.
>>REGINA: Well, let's talk
about their attributes
and then why that is.
>>PARKYN: So manifestors, they
have a very specific design
in life where they catalyze
activities around them.
So by themself, yes,
they can manifest things.
They make things happen.
They see something
they want to go after
and sure enough, it happens.
But they have this
situation where
there's a lot of
people around them
that don't have this ability.
And they're watching
this manifestor
doing this and doing that.
And they're kind
of concerned, what
is that manifestor
going to do next?
I think I'll just stop them.
So manifestors find--
>>REGINA: They're like
whirling dervishes in a sense.
>>PARKYN: Well,
along those lines.
You know they're just in this
energy field in their life.
Right from the moment
they learn to crawl.
Right.
You know the baby's
off out of the room.
Where did the baby go?
Well it's manifesting.
It's got places to go
and people to meet.
Their baby's going to
have a wonderful time.
So people grab the baby,
put it back in the crib,
and the next time it gets to
the door, the door is locked.
So manifestors find this
consistently in their life
that everybody
tries to block them.
They disapprove.
And the manifestors walks into
the room and everyone picks
up, the energy the room has just
changed because all of a sudden
on the one side there's
tremendous capability
has walked in here, but
there's also a sense--
>>REGINA: A whirlwind.
>>PARKYN: A whirlwind.
But there's also a danger.
What are they going to do?
Are they going to turn
my life inside out?
I better stop them while I can.
>>REGINA: I tend to
jump back, I have
some manifestors girlfriends.
They're very
capable, very smart.
I adore them.
But I tend to just kind of jump
back and get out of the way.
>>PARKYN: That is
what a manifestors
loves for you is not
only get out of the way,
but hold the door open for them.
>>REGINA: Go for it.
You make all the plans, please?
>>PARKYN: Right.
Or can I come along
because it's a lot of fun
being around a manifestor.
Yeah.
I mean I've literally watched
this with manifestors.
They walk past somebody.
Nothing's happened to
this person for years.
And as the manifestors
walks past,
everything starts to happen.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
So someone's been in
a slump for years.
And all of a sudden
the manifestors just
kicks it into gear for them.
>>REGINA: But then
other people can
find them super annoying
sometimes because there's
just way too much chaos.
>>PARKYN: Yeah.
Can't you just sit down
and take it easy for a bit?
Well, no I'm manifesting.
So we can make fun about this,
but I always say to people
if you're not a manifestor,
make sure you have at least
one manifestors in your life.
Because if they
like you and they'll
help you facilitate things.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Yeah.
They're irreplaceable in that.
>>PARKYN: Exactly.
Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now we go to the
rarest of all, 1%
of the population, reflectors.
And doesn't that mean none of
those centers are filled in.
>>PARKYN: None of
them are colored in.
>>REGINA: Nothing's colored in.
So explain the implications
of that and how they function.
>>PARKYN: Well, again I say,
if you're not a reflector,
you need to have at least
one reflector in your life.
Make sure you know
one, because they're
going to give you a pure
reflection of who you are.
That's what they do.
That's why we just call this
design a reflector design.
They're pure empaths.
They have the
potential to pick up
everything that's going on
around them, whether it's
here or on the other
side of the world,
or whatever, they're
just completely open.
So in olden times, they
would be the high priestess
in the temple, you know that
only met with certain people
because they were living on
the other side of the veil.
And they were just very remote.
And they were communing
with the universe
and picking up the
wisdom that people
would need in the community
to be able to prosper.
In these times, reflectors
come into this world
and they mostly think
there's something really
wrong with them because
they're so different.
The rest of us are all--
>>REGINA: They have a
hard time finding place.
>>PARKYN: Definitely, yes.
Because they're not living
according to everybody else's
ways.
So what we always
say to reflectors
is do appreciate your
situation and see
that you have this
potential to accrue
an enormous level of wisdom.
>>REGINA: Because every center's
open for your experience
and play.
>>PARKYN: Yes.
But do realize you are
very susceptible to being
overloaded.
So living in an
apartment building,
living in a dormitory,
living where there's just
a crowd of different people's
energies all around you,
there can be this place
where you get overwhelmed.
So it's really worthwhile, at
least, having time in your day
when you have space to yourself.
So you can absorb everything
or let things settle in you
and come back fresh
into the world.
>>REGINA: I had a boyfriend
once who was a reflector
and what a sensitive, very
brilliant, and very empathic
sensitive being,
really hard to be
around a lot of other
people or certain buildings.
Even the feng shui the way
buildings were laid out.
Everything had to be kind
of peaceful and perfect.
>>PARKYN: Reflectors operate
in many, many different ways.
>>REGINA: Yes.
But that's how he survived all
the bombardment of energies.
Yeah.
Interesting.
>>PARKYN: But wonderful people.
I won't say I
collect reflectors,
but I know several reflectors.
I rely on them to give
me clear view of life
every now and again when I
feel like things are going off
target.
>>REGINA: I love Human Design.
I find this absolutely
fascinating.
And we are-- well,
we're well of time.
But Chetan, thank you
so much for joining me.
And you have these
two beautiful books.
And when I say that, I mean
they're really not just useful,
but they're
absolutely beautiful.
Beautiful imagery,
beautiful paper.
They're really well done.
This is the first time I've
had my hands on this lot.
It's the "Book of
Lines and Human
Design Discover the Person
You Were Born To Be."
But you have another
book coming up?
>>PARKYN: Yes.
"The Book of Destinies."
So the Human Design
book "Discover
the Person You Were Born To
Be" and "The Book of Destinies"
is discover the life
you were born to live.
So it's a 20 year work.
It's my wife Carola
Eastwood and myself,
we've been working on this.
Mostly I have to say it's been
me that's had my nose down
with this working on this.
But it's basically there are 192
different incarnation themes.
192.
All of us have one of these
themes for our whole lifetime.
It's almost like the
theme music of a movie.
If you know the theme
of a movie or the story,
it goes throughout
the whole play.
>>REGINA: What's your theme?
>>PARKYN: My theme
is explanation.
All Right.
>>REGINA: I think
that's my theme as well.
>>PARKYN: It is
your theme as well.
We explain things to people.
And we try to give different
viewpoints of things.
And as I say, there are 192
of these different themes.
Everybody that I've
read their theme to they
either burst into tears or they
just have a huge realization.
My goodness, this is
something from day one
that has always been
playing in my life.
It's magical stuff.
So I'm very excited about
this book coming out.
>>REGINA: I am too so
after that happens,
we'll come back and do this
again, if you don't mind,
on that.
>>PARKYN: Love to.
>>REGINA: Fabulous.
Thank you.
I absolutely love
the information
on all the candidates, too.
Well I think people feel seen
sometimes for the first time,
when they have a
Human Design reading.
>>PARKYN: Indeed.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Meanwhile, you can get a
copy of "Book of Destinies"
at major booksellers.
And you can find out more
about Chetan's other work
through his website
humandesignforusall.com.
Until next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]